Docs 4286 docs create section on tc cloud setup (#1569)
truenas/documentation: content/TrueCommand/TCGettingStarted/Install/InstallTCCloud.md

---
title: "Installing TrueCommand Cloud"
description: "This article describes the steps for installing TrueCommand Cloud."
weight: 10
tags:
- tccloudinstall
- tcinstall
- tccloud
- scaletoptoolbar
- coretoptoolbar
---
{{< toc >}}

TrueCommand is versatile and offers several different install options.
TrueCommand Cloud is the preferred method for using TrueCommand since it requires no local resources or specific hardware requirements to get started!

{{< hint info >}}
Please note that a credit card number is required for Cloud Signups.

> Purchasing a TrueCommand license as part of an Enterprise contract provides special benefits. Contact [**iXsystems Customer Support**]({{< relref "/TrueCommand/Introduction/Support.md" >}}). Request a sign-up code from a member of the Deployment Team. This code provides the TrueCommand Cloud license at no cost for the duration of the contract.

Reviewer: Suggestion to clarify text a little to make it obvious the sign-up code is an additional option for people who are already purchasing a TrueNAS Enterprise license. 
```suggestion
If you're purchasing TrueNAS Enterprise hardware or licenses, you might be eligible to receive an additional TrueCommand license that lasts the duration of the TrueNAS Enterprise contract. Contact [**iXsystems Customer Support**]({{< relref "/TrueCommand/Introduction/Support.md" >}}) for more details about adding TrueCommand to your TrueNAS Enterprise purchase.
```

{{< /hint >}}

## Getting Started with Cloud Deployment

{{< expand "TrueCommand Cloud: Register and Create Subscription" "v" >}}

TrueCommand Cloud is a SaaS offering of TrueCommand with a WireGuard VPN capability to connect TrueNAS systems through firewalls.

> TrueCommand Cloud is compatible with TrueNAS version v12.0 and newer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TrueCommand Cloud is compatible with TrueNAS version 12.0 and newer.
```

Author: Suggested change completed.

---
title: "Installing TrueCommand Cloud"
description: "This article describes the steps for installing TrueCommand Cloud."
weight: 10
tags:
- tccloudinstall
- tcinstall
- tccloud
- scaletoptoolbar
- coretoptoolbar
---
{{< toc >}}

TrueCommand is versatile and offers several different install options.
TrueCommand Cloud is the preferred method for using TrueCommand since it requires no local resources or specific hardware requirements to get started!

{{< hint info >}}
A credit card number is required for Cloud Signups.

If the TrueCommand Cloud license was purchased as part of an Enterprise contract, please contact [**iXSystems Customer Support**]({{< relref "/TrueCommand/Introduction/Support.md" >}}) and a member of the Deployment Team will provide a sign-up code which makes the cost $0 for the duration of the contract.
{{< /hint >}}

> ## Begin TrueCommand Cloud Installation

Author: Removed.

> {{< expand "TrueCommand Cloud: Register and Create Subscription" >}}

Reviewer 2: Couple of things:
Starting an expand under a heading that has other subheadings under it means those headings do no get listed in the TOC so we need to be careful where we use expands. This is also the reason we did away with tabs because headings in tabs also do not get listed in the TOC.
Too many headings followed immediately by expands chops up the article too much and doesn't improve readability of the article. We want to use expands to collapse long procedures that advanced users might want to skip over if they know how to do that part of the procedure.
When doing the expand shortcode, Tim told me to include the "v" as the expand down instruction for the shortcode.
```suggestion
{{< expand "TrueCommand Cloud: Register and Create Subscription" "v" >}}
```

Author: Added "v"

Check the address spam folder if the email does not arrive within a few minutes.
If the email is in the spam folder, mark it as *not spam* and add the account to the address book.
After receiving the verification email, open the link provided to verify the account.

### Create a New Subscription

Log in to the verified account and click **New Subscription**.  

![PortalDashboard](/images/TrueCommand/Cloud/PortalDashboard.png "Account Services: Dashboard")

![PortalCloudSubscription](/images/TrueCommand/Cloud/PortalCloudSubscription.png "Creating a Cloud Subscription")

Select the TrueCommand Cloud option and choose the subscription plan that best fits your current needs.

![PortalCloudSubscriptionOptions](/images/TrueCommand/Cloud/PortalCloudSubscriptionOptions.png "Account Services: Cloud Subscription Options")

Click **Continue** to proceed.

![PortalCloudSubscriptionSelected](/images/TrueCommand/Cloud/PortalCloudSubscriptionSelected.png "Account Services: Cloud Subscription Selected")

Next, fill out the payment form. 

![CloudSubscriptionPayment](/images/TrueCommand/Cloud/CloudSubscriptionPayment.png "Cloud Subscription Payment")

> Click Subscribe and wait for the form to be accepted. The Account Services window confirms that you have an active TrueNAS Cloud account with an active subscription.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click **Subscribe** and wait until the form is accepted. The **Account Services** window confirms that you have an active TrueNAS Cloud account with an active subscription.
```

Author: Suggested changes added.

### Provision the Active Subscription

> Click the **Provision Now** button which is located to the right of the Active Subscription listing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the **Provision Now** button located to the right of the **Active Subscription** listing.
```

Author: Made suggested changes.

![PortalDashboardActiveSubscription](/images/TrueCommand/Cloud/PortalDashboardActiveSubscription.png "Account Services: Active Subscriptions")

> Select a **Subnet** that your network is not using.

Reviewer 2: in this case subnet is the value for the field of the same name, but we should avoid combining the value with the field name, so try this:
```suggestion
Select a subnet that your network is not using from the **Subnet** dropdown list.
```

Author: Made suggested changes.

![TrueCommandProvisionSubnet](/images/TrueCommand/Cloud/TrueCommandProvisionSubnet.png "Account Services: Provisioning TrueCommand")

> Click **Create Instance**. This will return you to the Account Services screen.  

Reviewer 2: Don't use the word will
```suggestion
Click **Create Instance**. This returns you to the **Account Services** screen.  
```

Author: Made suggested changes.

The next step is to add a client and create a WireGuard Config file.

{{< /expand >}}

## Adding a Client and WireGuard in TrueCommand Cloud

{{< expand "TrueCommand Cloud: Add Client and WireGuard" >}}

From the account home page, click **Manage**.

> You need to add a client in order to obtain a TrueCommand WireGuard Config file.  

Reviewer 2: Maybe this instead
```suggestion
To obtain a TrueCommand WireGuard config file you need to add a client.  
```

Author: Made suggested changes.

Under **Create Access Client** provide a nickname and click the **Add** button.

![CloudSubscriptionServiceDetails](/images/TrueCommand/Cloud/CloudSubscriptionServiceDetails.png "Account Services: Service Details")

After adding the client, click <i class="fa fa-download action-icon clickable" aria-hidden="true" title="Download WireGuard configuration file"></i> to download the configuration file.

![CloudSubscriptionServiceDetailsWireGuardClient](/images/TrueCommand/Cloud/CloudSubscriptionServiceDetailsWireGuardClient.png "Account Services: Downloading the WireGuard Configuration File")

> Open Wireguard on your machine and click **Add Tunnel**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open Wireguard on your system and click **Add Tunnel**.
```

Author: Made suggested changes.

![WireGuardTunnels](/images/TrueCommand/WireGuardTunnels.png "WireGuard: Adding Tunnels")

> Select the TrueCommand WireGuard Configuration file you downloaded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select the TrueCommand WireGuard configuration file you downloaded.
```

Author: Made suggested changes.

![WireGuardTCCloudInactive](/images/TrueCommand/WireGuardTCCloudInactive.png "WireGuard: Tunnel Inactive")

Click **Activate** to initialize the Wireguard tunnel.

![WireGuardTCCloudActivate](/images/TrueCommand/WireGuardTCCloudActivate.png "WireGuard: Tunnel Active")

See the [WireGuard home page](https://www.wireguard.com) for more information on WireGuard and WireGuard clients.

The TrueCommand Cloud IP address is on the iXsystems account portal.

When WireGuard is active, log in to the TrueCommand Cloud interface by clicking the TrueCommand IP address on the portal, or manually enter the TrueCommand Cloud IP in a browser.

The next step is to add systems to your configuration.
{{< /expand >}}

## Connect Systems to the TrueCommand Cloud Instance

{{< expand "TrueCommand Cloud: Connecting Systems" >}}

Log into the ixSystems cloud account and click **Manage**.
Under **Service Details**, copy the **TrueCommand API Key**.

![CloudSubscriptionServiceDetailsWireGuardClient](/images/TrueCommand/Cloud/CloudSubscriptionServiceDetailsWireGuardClient.png "Account Services: TrueCommand API Key")

Log into a TrueNAS system and click the TrueCommand icon in the upper right.

> Paste the TrueCommand API Key copied from the iXsystems Account Portal into the TrueNAS dialog window. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Paste the TrueCommand API key copied from the iXsystems Account Portal into the TrueNAS dialog window. 
```

Author: Made suggested change.

{{< /expand >}}

### Adding Browser Security Exceptions
{{< expand "TrueCommand: Browser Exceptions" >}}

TrueCommand uses a [self signed certificate](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8705) for a secure connection.
Because of this, many Internet browsers consider the IP address or DNS host name untrustworthy.
In these cases, the IP address or DNS host name must be added as an exception to the browser to access the web interface.
Adding an exception is shown here for two different browsers, but the procedure is similar for most browsers.

### Browser Security Exceptions
{{< expand "Chrome" >}}
Click **Advanced** to view information about the error code.
Click **Proceed to hostname (unsafe)**.

![ChromeWarning](/images/TrueCommand/2.0/ChromeWarning.png "Chrome Warning")
{{< /expand >}}
{{< expand "Firefox" >}}
Click **Advanced** to view information about the error code.

![FirefoxWarning](/images/TrueCommand/2.0/FirefoxWarning.png "Firefox Warning")

> Click **Add Exception...**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click **Add Exception**.
```

Author: Made suggested change.

Set **Permanently store this exception** to permanently store the IP address or DNS host name in Firefox.
Click **Confirm Security Exception**.

![FirefoxExceptionAdd](/images/TrueCommand/2.0/FirefoxExceptionAdd.png "Adding a security exception")
{{< /expand >}}
{{< /expand >}}

## Create the Administrator Account in TrueCommand Cloud
{{< expand "TrueCommand Cloud: Create the Admin Account" >}}

When accessing the interface for the first time, you need to create an admin account. 

![TrueCommand Admin Creation](/images/TrueCommand/2.0/FirstLogin.png "TrueCommand Admin Creation")

* Enter a username and password.

> * Read the Terms of Service, set **I have read and agree to the terms of service**, and click **SIGN UP**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Read the Terms of Service, select **I have read and agree to the terms of service**, and click **SIGN UP**.
```

Author: Made suggested change.
